An organizational chart is a diagram
that shows the structure of a department
within the organization.
It also shows the relationships in relative ranks
of its positions within the department.
Organizational charts can be a great tool
to assist employees and managers
in improving their performance of daily duties.
They also serve to show management
and staff clear promotional channels to navigate.
Organizational charts can offer many other benefits
to the organization and its staff.
Some of these other benefits include helping employees
know their roles in their jobs and their rights.
Org charts help management balance the workload
of staff evenly among all employees and helps them
analyze and plan their budgets based on workloads.
They enable other departments to understand the structure
of the department and how it impacts their department
and the whole organization,
as well as helping to provide department structure
so everyone can understand how to meet facility goals.
On the next slide, we will review the VA VHA organizational
structure and how it impacts the transformational goals.